So far in this section we've talked about callback functions and some applications of those callback
functions.
Now we're going to take a step back and learn about something a little bit more foundational for asynchronous
code.
So what we're talking about now is the stack in the heap and understanding how this works in depth really
make your life easier when you're working on code and Javascript and debugging and basically just understanding
coding.
In general so I'm excited to talk about this.
Let's dive in.
Our objectives are to describe what the stack is.
Describe a stack frame and lastly to describe the heap.
So first of all what is the stack Well the stack is an ordered data structure.
And it keeps track of the functions that we can vote.
So this is kind of nebulous right now don't worry about it Wolf.
We'll dive into this a lot more as we go.
It's important to understand that the stack isn't something that you have access to directly in javascript.
Really what's going on is every time you invoke a function the stack gets modified to keep track of
that function you've invoked.
And every time a function is finished running it will be popped off the stack and the javascript runtime
will take it off for you.
So maybe a fine line here but your not the one directly modifying the stack.
The Javascript runtime is doing that when you invoke a function or when a function is done running.
So how does your code changes stack.
Like I mentioned before whenever you invoke a function the details of the invocation are saved at the
top of the stack.
And people often say that something is pushed onto the top of the stack whenever a function returns
the information about the invocation is taken off the top of the stack.
And again this is often called popping.
OK so let's see the stack in action.
Let's take a look at a small piece of code and examine how the stack changes as the code is run.
The function is invoked below with premolars three and five.
So you expect the result to be 15 three times five but how was javascript interact with the stack when
this code runs well before anything is executed.
The Javascript runtime will place the main program on the stack so as you can see our stack first has
a main Ive put line numbers on the side of the code.
One two three four five for each line of code and the stack is keeping track here of the line number
that were on in our main function.
So that's important.
It's a it's an important part of the stack to know where you invoke the function and where you need
to return to after you're done.
So we'll see that as we go.
OK so what happens next.
Well multiply has been invoked at this point on line number five.
So because multiply is being invoked the javascript runtime will place the multiply invocation on the
stack.
So now the stack has another invocation on top of the main function.
So our previous invocation for the main is waiting on line number five for the result of this multiply
function to finish and multiply.
Here is on line number 2 about to execute the code for X times Y.
In other words three times five three times five will be multiplied we'll get the result of 15 and then
we'll return that from a multiply function.
So now our multiply function is all done which means that we're going to pop multiply off the stack.
Once we return something our function is finished.
So that means the javascript runtime can take it off of the stack.
Now because our main function was waiting here on line number five the result of calling multiply comes
back to our main on line 5.
So now the result is equal to 15 but we're not quite done yet.
Remember that our main function is still on the stack.
So once we've assigned the result to 15 Our code is all done.
So the javascript runtime takes Maine off the stack as well.
So now our stack is empty.
We are not running any more code and the javascript runtime is just waiting for something to do.
Let's go back a bit to our example we have a few things on the stack.
So here we are where we've got our main function here and we've invoked multiply.
So we've got two invocations on the stack waiting to finish.
So what are these things what are these these boxes that keep track of each function and vocation.
These are often called stack frames and they keep track of some pretty important information.
So what does a stack frame have.
It has information about the function that was invoked.
So you can see here this is our main function that was getting invoked and this is our multiply function.
It has the parameters that were passed to the function.
I'm not keeping track of that here but we remember that multiply and this example was passed three and
five for x and y.
And also very important we keep track of the line number that we're on.
So when this multiply finishes javascript knows to go back to line number five and continue execution.
Now that we understand what a stack frame is let's define a stack more rigorously.
So a stack is an ordered set of stack frames.
Most recently invoked functions are always on top of the stack and the bottom of the stack contains
the functions that were invoked first earliest So the stack is processed always from top to bottom.
We can't take things out of the middle right because of function in the middle could be waiting for
some results.
So it's always top first one at a time all the way down to the bottom until the stack is empty.
Now let's find the heap the heap is an area in memory where your data is stored.
Let's look at a very small code example that creates some memory.
So in this example the object is created in the heap and a reference to that object is assigned to a
variable object.
Now just for clarity This actually creates some or takes up some memory in the heap.
But when we do something like this var reference copy equals RBJ.
We're not creating something new on the heap.
We're just saving a reference to that same area in memory.
So this is another area that new javascript programmers often get confused about.
This actually creates memory in our heap.
This is just a copy of that same reference.
So if I were to change some value in reference copy the value would also be changed and B.J. the section
is getting a little long.
So we'll take a break here.
But in the next video we'll see another example of the stack and explore how it works with a little
bit more complicated example.